---
title: "Chemical composition of giant exoplanets due to pebble, planetesimal and gas accretion: origin of the heavy elements"
collection: publications
permalink: "/publications/2020-10-master"
excerpt: 'Paper (in progress) about my master thesis project.'
date: 2020-11-01
venue: #'Astronomy & Astrophysics'
paperurl: 
citation: 
---
Recent studies of extrasolar gas giants suggest high C/O ratios in planetary atmospheres compared to their host stars. Interior models of observed extrasolar planets additionally suggest high heavy element contents for these planets. Previous research adopted either pebble- or planetesimal accretion for the growth of these planets to gain insights into this question.

We investigate whether the combination of pebble- and planetesimal accretion will help to explain the enrichment of heavy elements in exoplanets.

To achieve this goal, we perform semi analytical 1D models of protoplanetary disks including the treatment of viscous evolution and heating, pebble drift and simple chemistry to grow planets from embryos to Jupiters by accretion of pebbles, planetesimals and gas while they migrate through the disc.

The treatment of pebble- and planetesimal accretion simultaneously unveils that measured compositions mainly depend on the amount of heavy elements polluted in to the gas by the evaporation of pebbles.
In addition, our model reveals that giant planets originating further away from the central star have a higher C/O ratio on average.

We conclude that the inclusion of pebble evaporation at ice lines is a key ingredient to determine the heavy element content of giant planets and their composition.